---
layout: post
title: "Weeknotes for Week 15, 2020"
date: 2020-04-12 22:00:00 +0000
location: London
categories: ['weeknotes']
summary: "A week of thinking about organising data and knowledge"
image: /assets/images/posts/2020/weeknotes_week_15.jpg
---

{% figure %}
![Weeknotes for Week 15, 2020](/assets/images/posts/2020/weeknotes_week_15.jpg)
{% endfigure %}

The lockdown continues. It's pretty horrible to be thinking of all the death and
misery going on all around (the U.K. has just reached 10,000 deaths from
COVID-19... ten fucking thousand!), so this past week I've been thinking a lot
about organisation of knowledge. This is part of my ongoing rethinking of
processes (for now, specific to computing) centered around the imperative for
data ownership.

In addition to owning the data, it's also very important that data remains
accessible and usable in the years and decades ahead. Just like huge amounts of
data have been lost to [optical disc
rot](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disc_rot), just as much, if not more, has
been lost over the course of my computing life to DRM[^1] and proprietary formats.

---

One particular area in which this has hurt the most has been notekeeping, or
accumulation of personal knowledge. While this is a life-long endeavour by
definition, bits and pieces of this have been saved in various note-taking
programs, task managers, and so on. I've had notes in Dropbox, Notational
Velocity, Evernote, Things, Apple Notes, Google Keep, Ulysses, Notion, and I'm
probably forgetting many others. The one thing that these solutions all have in
common is that they don't allow easy export from one system to the next, and, if
the company building the particular app you're using either goes bust or changes
the rules of the game[^2], well, you're screwed.

The tool of the day for knowledge management is a platform called [Roam
Research](https://roamresearch.com/), and [it is
impressive](https://www.reddit.com/r/RoamResearch/comments/eho7de/building%5Fa%5Fsecond%5Fbrain%5Fin%5Froamand%5Fwhy%5Fyou%5Fmight/).
It's a sort of mix between a note taking system, a personal wiki, and the
[Zettelkasten](http://dansheffler.com/blog/2015-05-05-the-zettelkasten-method/)
method, and allows to discover organic connections between pieces of knowledge.
I was very tempted to give it a try.

---

A few months back, I've rediscovered[^3] the [GNU Emacs text
editor](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/) thanks to my friend
[Alastair](https://mastodon.social/@amdt) (in addition to many things: the man
is also pretty much responsible for me switching to Linux!), and with it, [Org
mode](https://orgmode.org/). 

Emacs has been around for longer than I have been alive, and has a gigantic set
of packages built around it, dealing with pretty much anything that's even
remotely related to editing text. Org is a plain text file format, in a way
similar to Markdown, and a suite of tools (mostly for Emacs) built around that
format. One thing that Org is used for is tracking todos, but, combined with
other tools built into Emacs, as well as its plain text characteristics, it's
the perfect foundation for a personal knowledge system that will last for the
decades to come.

My free time this week has mostly been dedicated to trying to organise a
personal knowledge system built around Org mode. One thing that has been hugely
inspirtional has been [Org Roam](https://blog.jethro.dev/posts/introducing_org_roam/), a Roam
clone for Org mode developed by Singaporean engineer Jethro Kuan. In a series of
blog posts ([1](https://blog.jethro.dev/posts/capturing_inbox/),
[2](https://blog.jethro.dev/posts/processing_inbox/),
[3](https://blog.jethro.dev/posts/zettelkasten_with_org/)) he's described how he
manages his own knowledge base and tasks in Org, and the problems that needed to
be solved that led to the creation of Org Roam. I've been studying Kuan's
methodology (and his [Emacs
config](https://github.com/jethrokuan/dots/blob/master/.doom.d/config.el))), and
will be very certainly building on his work for my own knowledge management
system.

I've been looking for a way to capture learning and make it available for
reference for a long time, and this seems like it could be a great system. As
I'm getting older, I hope this will help me keep learning, and make the
accumulated knowledge useful.

See you next week, stay safe out there!

[^1]: Remember when songs bought from iTunes came with embedded DRM? Yeah, I
    bought a bunch of those.
    
[^2]: Notational Velocity is somewhat of an exception in there: it's open source
    and relies on plain text files. Mac only, though.
    
[^3]: We were forced to use Emacs at uni while learning C, but I was not an
    enthusiastic user at that time and missed out on a lot of cool things.
