---
layout: post
title: "Now page update"
date: 2025-11-05 22:00:00 +0000
location: London
categories: ['now', 'meta']
---

Updated the [Now page](/now), archiving the contents below for posterity.

---

## Looking for work

After a 4-months stint at Clausebase where I worked on really interesting natural language processing projects and some LLM-powered workflows, I am once again looking for work. 

I would like to spend the next few years at a stable, friendly team where I could work on hard problems, be their programming, systems, or organisation-related.

I’ve added [a page to this website](/hire) to show off my skills and experience, please take a look and [reach out](mailto:gosha@gosha.net) if your team could use my expertise.

## Parenting

E. was born in June, and has been delighting us ever since. It’s been a lot of fun to get to know him, and we’re slowly getting used to being a family of four. It’s a big change for all of us, but especially for N., who is now three years old, and has been adapting to her new identity as a big sister. It hasn’t always been easy for her, but she’s been brilliant.

Same as I have done with N., I’m documenting the first year of E.’s life with daily instant photographs.

## Making progress on Parts

Together with my partner, an [Internal Family Systems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internal_Family_Systems_Model) therapist, we’re building [Parts](https://parts.ifs.tools), a parts mapping tool for IFS therapists and their clients.

Progress has been slow with the birth of our son and the previous job hunt, but I’m slowly starting to work on it again, and have actually started building [Minigraph](https://github.com/apossiblespace/minigraph), our own interactive graph editor, which is the piece of UI that’s at the very core of Parts.

## Trying to get good at Clojure

At the suggestion of my friend BG, I’ve been doing the [4ever-clojure exercises](https://4clojure.oxal.org/), looking only at the official Clojure docs and the Clojure source code. It’s been slow going (like everything else these days), but I’m about 35% through, and it’s been great fun.

