---
layout: post
title: "Brother John, artichokes, and tigers"
date: 2026-03-28 09:24:02 +0800
location: London
categories: ['family', 'kids', 'personal', 'parenting', 'music']
summary: "Soothing the kids to sleep in four languages"
---

In our family, we have four languages between us: English, Mandarin Chinese, French, and Russian. When N. was born, I wanted to sing lullabies to her in all four.

_Brother John_, a classic of the genre, has served us well.

The English version is well known:

> Are you sleeping, are you sleeping,<br/>
> Brother John? Brother John?<br/>
> Morning bells are ringing, morning bells are ringing<br/>
> Ding ding dong, ding ding dong<br/>

It's basically an almost word-for-word adaptation of the French version, which is the original:

> Frère Jacques, frère Jacques<br/>
> Dormez-vous? Dormez-vous?<br/>
> Sonnez les matines, sonnez les matines<br/>
> Ding ding dong, ding ding dong<br/>

(Brother Jacques, are you sleeping? Ring the matins bells, ding ding ding)

The Russian version I use, suggested by my Dad, is not the canonical translation (one does exist), but rather a cheeky reworking by Soviet music students, which cracks me up each time I really think about it:

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>RU</th>
    <th>EN</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      Артишоки, артишоки,<br/>
      И миндаль! И миндаль!<br/>
      Не растут на попе, не растут на попе<br/>
      Очень жаль. Очень жаль.
    </td>
    <td>
      Artichokes, artichokes,<br/>
      And almonds! And almonds!<br/>
      Don't grow on one's butt, don't grow on one's butt<br/>
      A great pity. A great pity.
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

And the Chinese version is really fun too -- an adaptation of the melody with a completely different story, well known to kids growing up in Taiwan in the 90s:

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>ZH</th>
    <th>Pinyin</th>
    <th>EN</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      兩隻老虎，兩隻老虎，<br/>
      跑得快，跑得快！<br/>
      一隻沒有眼睛！一隻沒有尾巴！<br/>
      真奇怪！真奇怪！
    </td>
    <td>
      Liǎng zhī lǎo hǔ, liǎng zhī lǎo hǔ,<br/>
      Pǎo dé kuài, pǎo dé kuài!<br/>
      Yī zhī méi yǒu yǎn jīng! Yī zhī méi yǒu wěi bā!<br/>
      Zhēn qí guài! Zhēn qí guài!
    </td>
    <td>
      Two tigers, two tigers,<br/>
      Running fast, running fast!<br/>
      One doesn't have eyes! One doesn't have a tail!<br/>
      How strange! How strange!
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

N. loved the Chinese version especially when she was smaller, and now E. is enjoying the songs as well.
